Sweet Beet Pie from Sister Pie
Filling:

8 oz whole red beets

6 Tbs unsalted butter

3/4 C packed light brown sugar

1 1/2 Tbs fine yellow cornmeal

1/4 tsp kosher salt

3 large eggs, at room temperature

1/2 C heavy cream, at room temperature

1/2 C plain, thick yogurt (full-fat Greek works well), at room temp

Pie:

One 9-inch pie crust, blind baked and cooled, or cooked to manufacturer's directions (if you're blind baking, when you'd take the crust out, pull the foil off the crust and let it bake for another 5-7 mins. The pie bakes at a lowish temp, so this helps get a nice crust)

1 large egg, beaten

Directions:

Preheat your oven to 425 F. Scrub the beets and trim the ends. Pierce the beets a few times with a fork and wrap tightly in foil before placing in a baking dish or on a baking sheet. Roast for 40-50 minutes, until you can smoosh the foil package with your oven mitt. Remove the baking sheet from the oven and place on a wire rack. When cool enough to handle, open the foil package and carefully remove the skins from the beets. Transfer the beet flesh to a food processor or blender and puree until smooth. Set aside. You can roast the beets up to 2 days in advance and store the beet puree in an airtight container in the fridge.

Place the butter in a heavy-bottomed saucepan over medium heat, and use a silicone spatula to stir it gently occasionally. Swirl the pan every once in a while to distribute the heat evenly. You'll see the butter fully melt and separate, then start to boil. It will typically go through two phases of boiling: first a clear foam will form, followed by a soapy, white foam. Tiny brown specks will then appear, marking the first signs of the browning. Keep stirring, and do not leave unattended. The color will change from yellow to golden to a deep, toasted brown. If you're having trouble seeing the color beneath the foam, spoon a little into a clear glass and check. Set aside to cool slightly.

Preheat your oven to 325 F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.

In a medium bowl, combine the cooled brown butter with the beet puree, brown sugar, cornmeal, and salt, and whisk until smooth.

Crack the eggs into another medium bowl. Add the cream and yogurt and whisk until combined.

Slowly pour the egg mixture into the beet mixture and whisk until combined and smooth.

Place the blind-baked pie shell on the parchment-lined baking sheet. Brush the crimped edge with the beaten egg. Pour the beet filling into the pie shell until it reaches the bottom of the crimps.

Transfer the baking sheet with the pie on it to the oven and bake the pie for 40 to 50 minutes, until the edges are just beginning to puff and the center jiggles only slightly when shaken. The filling will continue to set as it cools.

Remove the baking sheet from the oven and transfer the pie to a wire rack to cool completely, at least 4 hours. When the pie is at room temp, slice it into 6-8 pieces and serve.

Store leftover pie in the fridge, well wrapped in plastic wrap, for up to 3 days.